Update User Guide - New Annotations UI and 3D support (#9571)
geosolutions-it/MapStore2: docs/user-guide/annotations.md

!!! note
    For Marker annotation, in 3D Navigation, the *3D model* symbolizer type is also available, as shown in the [Styling on 3D](annotations.md#styling-on-3d) section below.

***Line***

The *Line* annotation has a dedicated styling panel with a customizable `Stroke` with different `Color`, `Width` and `Style` and different `Line cap` (*Butt*, *Round*, *Square*) and the `Line join` (*Bevel*, *Round*, *Miter*). Take a look at the following image.

<img src="../img/annotations/polyline_style_editor.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

The line annotation is also customizable adding a Mark symbolizer by clicking on the <img src="../img/button/add_mark_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button or the Icon one with the <img src="../img/button/add_icon_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button and choose *Start Point*, *Center* or *End Point* from the `Geometry transformation` option.

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/annotations/start_point_option.mp4" ></video>

***Polygon***

The *Polygon* annotation can have different `Fill` color and `Outline` with different `Color`, `Width` and `Style`. Take a look at the following example.

> <img src="../img/annotations/polygon_style_editor.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

Reviewer: @ElenaGallo also this image need to be updated

Also for the polygon itis possible to add a *Mark* <img src="../img/button/add_mark_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> or an *Icon* <img src="../img/button/add_icon_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> symbolizer in the same way as for Line annotations.

***Text***

Defining a point geometry with an associated text, the *Text* annotation allows to customize label trough many options such as: `Font Family` (*DejaVu Sans*, *Serif*, etc), the font `Color`, `Size`, `Style` (*Normal* or *Italic*) and `Halo weight` (*Normal* or *Bold*) and it allows also to select the desired `Anchor point`(*Center*, *Bottom left*, etc), `Halo color` and `Halo weight`. It is also possible to choose the text `Rotation` and `Offset` (*x* and *y*). En example can be the following one.

<img src="../img/annotations/text_annotation_editor.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

***Circle***

The *Circle* annotation has its own symbolizer panel to customize the `Color` and the `Outline` with different `Color`, `Width` and `Style`. Take a look at the following example.

> <img src="../img/annotations/circle_style_editor.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

Reviewer: @ElenaGallo also this image need to be updated

<img src="../img/annotations/annotations_toolbar.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

***Marker***

MapStore provides different *Marker* annotation style:

* The *Mark* types: clicking on the <img src="../img/button/add_mark_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button, a mark panel appears.

<img src="../img/annotations/marker_type_selection.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

The mark can have different `Shape`, `Color`, `Stroke` with different `Color`, `Width` and `Style` and customizable `Radius` and `Rotation`. Take a look at the following example.

<img src="../img/annotations/marker_style_editor.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

* The *Icon* types: clicking on the <img src="../img/button/add_icon_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button, an icon panel appears.
The icon can have different `Image`. Clicking on it, the user can choose a *Marker* and a *Glyph*, as follows:

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/annotations/icon_style_editor.mp4" ></video>

The icon is also customizable with different `Opacity`, `Size`, `Rotation` and `Anchor point`.

> 

Reviewer: @ElenaGallo please put a note here indicating the other symbolizer for the 3D with a link to the related section.

***Line***

> *Line* annotations, have customizable `Stroke` with different `Color`, `Width` and `Style` and different `Line cap` (*Butt*, *Round*, *Square*) and the `Line join` (*Bevel*, *Round*, *Miter*). Take a look at the following example.

Reviewer: @ElenaGallo it seems still the old one here

<img src="../img/annotations/polyline_style_editor.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;"/>

The line is also customizable by clicking the mark <img src="../img/button/add_mark_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button or the icon <img src="../img/button/add_icon_button.jpg" class="ms-docbutton"/> button and choose *Start Point*, *Center* or *End Point* from the `Geometry transformation` option.

<video class="ms-docimage" controls><source src="../img/annotations/start_point_option.mp4" ></video>

***Polygon***

> *Polygon* annotations, can have different `Fill` color and `Outline` with different `Color`, `Width` and `Style`. Take a look at the following example.

Reviewer: @ElenaGallo it seems still the old one here

## Settings Annotations

Once all the *Geometries* have been created, the user can enable the **Visibility limits** clicking on the *Settings* tab.

<img src="../img/annotations/settings_tab.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;" />

The **Visibility limits** allow the annotation to be displayed only within certain scale limits. The user can set the *Max value* and the *Min value* and select the *Limits type* choosing between `Scale` or `Resolution`.

## Annotations on the 3D navigation

Thanks to the new improvements, [MapStore](https://mapstore.geosolutionsgroup.com/mapstore/#/) allows the visualization of the *Annotations* also for the [3D Navigation](navigation-toolbar.md#3d-navigation).

<img src="../img/annotations/3d_annotations.jpg" class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:500px;" />

### Geometries on 3D

On the [3D Navigation](navigation-toolbar.md#3d-navigation), after selecting a geometry type and drawing the geometry on the map, the editor can also modify the geometry by changing the **Height** of each of the vertices.

<video class="ms-docimage" style="max-width:700px;" controls><source src="../img/annotations/height_switcher.mp4" ></video>

### Styling on 3D

> As *Marker* annotation on the [3D Navigation](navigation-toolbar.md#3d-navigation), the **3D model** type is also available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For *Marker* annotations, on the [3D Navigation](navigation-toolbar.md#3d-navigation) the **3D model** symbolizer type is also available.
```
